---
title: "First Day Back!"
date: "2021-02-01"
headline: "Math is ... interesting"
featuredImage: ../images/math-magic.jpg
---

First day of school after a short week of exam break! That week flew by too fast. I will be taking French 20IB, ELA 10 pre-IB, Math 20IB AA, and Chemistry 20 pre-IB. I'm not sure if I named those courses correctly but you probably get the gist.  
<br>

French was super boring. The teacher just talked about the course and what we were going to do. ELA was pretty much the same but at bit better because the teacher was funny. He noted some 'unusual' names which was hillarious. We got our first assignment for ELA too. In chemistry, the teacher went over the course (boring!) but at least he got to do some teaching by the end of class. Math jumped right in, and we spent the majority of the class reviewing factoring quadratics.  
<br>

While we were factoring quadratics I made a major discovery. I had often thought the sum and product of 2 numbers was impossible without using the quadratic equation. That is, a + b = sum, ab = product, what are numbers a and b.  
<br>

The quadratic in question was this: 40y^2 + 43y - 60. This is how I solved it:  
<br>

> 1. factor using decomposition: 40y^2 + __ y + __ y - 60 ---> this is so we can factor by grouping
> 2. We know that the first and second blank for y add up to 43 and have a product of -2400 (40\* -60)
> 3. Hence the sum and product problem: What are 2 numbers that add to 43 and have a product of -2400?

Lets name the 2 numbers a and b. then we get the 2 equations:

a+b = 43

a\*b = -2400  
<br>

Now we get into the real meat. I always thought to solve for a and b you would have to use substitution

set a = 43-b, then you get (43-b)b = -2400,

and then expanding you get b^2 - 43b - 2400 = 0.

But then, you run into the same problem when you try to factor like (b + **)(b - **) = 0.

2 numbers that multiply to get -2400 and add to get -43   
<br>

But then, a saviour occurs. If we can set up a system of equations with a+b and a-b then we'll be golden. The question is, how can we relate a-b to a+b and a\*b?

Here's our saviour: squaring! Who would've guessed.

(a+b)^2 expands to a^2 + 2ab + b^2

(a-b)^2 expands to a^2 - 2ab + b^2

We can then say that (a+b)^2 - 4ab = (a-b)^2  
<br>

And now we get out golden opportunity to subsitute with (a+b) and ab

43^2 - 4(-2400) = (a-b)^2. Taking the square root of both sides, we get

a-b = 107  
<br>

Using this, we can now set up a system of equations using a+b and a-b.

a+b = 43

a-b = 107

therefore, 2a = 150, a = 75

and 75 + b = 43, b = -32  
<br>

You might say, but wait! When you take the square root of something, the answer should be positive or negative! And you'd be correct! But watch what happens when we use -107 instead of 107 for our system of equations

a+b = 43

a-b = -107

therefore, 2a = -64, a = -32

and -32 + b = 43, b = 75

They just get reveresed! Isn't that neat! This is why I love math  
<br>

Finally, we can use grouping to factor our original quadratic.

40y^2 + 75y - 32y - 60

5y(8y + 15) - 4(8y + 15)

(8y + 15)(5y - 4)
