---
title: "Rant about online guides on programming"
date: "2021-06-21"
headline: "looking at you, GeeksForGeeks"
---

Many times now, I've encountered horrible guides on how to do a specific thing in programming. It has now happened to me most recently while I was trying to figure out how to integrate Google Captcha v3 into my contact form. When looking on stack overflow, I found 2 npm packages that seemed to do what I wanted to do, but the documentation for them was terrible. While it was easy to generate a token on page load, it was impossible to figure out if there was a way to trigger grecaptcha.execute() programmatically. Both packages seemed to load the captcha script and then call execute immediately after, making them highly impractical. You could either repeatedly load the scripts to keep generating new tokens (to prevent them from expiring after 2 minutes) or load the scripts when you send the token. I tried to get the latter option to work, but for some reason, grecaptcha.execute() never seemed to be called, which highly confused me. After looking through the documentation and digging around in their files on github for around 2 hours, I decided to ditch the npm package and do it from scratch.  
<br/>
While looking around for guides on how to integrate captcha v3 from scratch, came across a Medium article that seemed to also complain about the terrible documentation on npm packages for captcha v3. They recommened to just integrate it from scratch, and posted code samples. While they were helpful, their solution also triggered grecaptcha.execute() on page load rather than programmatically. After checking around on the internet more, I couldn't find any solution that seemed to have what I wanted, which was to trigger getting the captcha response token programmatically.  
<br/>
Ultimately, I ended up using the google captcha documentation (which is also pretty confusing) to get it to work. My solution ended up very similar to
the captcha documentation, without having to use any complicated javascript.  
<br/>
Submit button (in the form element in render() method). This is pretty close to what is shown in the google captcha documentation. The class attribute has just been changed to className. For some reason I have yet to figure out, `data-size="invisible"` is not working to hide the captcha badge. I will probably just create my own style that hides it later. 

```
<button type="submit" data-callback="handleSubmit" className="g-recaptcha" data-size="invisible" data-sitekey={this.siteKey}>Submit</button>
```
<br/>

Code that submits the form. `this.submit()` is a function that sends a post request with the token and form data to the backend.

```javascript
    handleSubmit = () => {
        window.grecaptcha.ready(() => {
            window.grecaptcha
                .execute(this.siteKey, { action: "submit" })
                .then((token) => {
                    this.setState({ token });
                    const data = JSON.stringify(this.state);
                    this.submit(data);
                })
                .catch((err) => {
                    console.log(err);
                });
        });
    };
```

<br/>
The problem with this is that handleSubmit is a function that belongs to the class, and that captcha expects a global function. If we tried to use this now,
captcha would not be able to find the function. In order to get it to work, we have to make handleSubmit() a global function by attaching it to the window.  
<br/>
Code that loads captcha script when components mounts. This code loads the captcha script and attaches it, and makes it so that handleSubmit() is a global function:

```javascript
    componentDidMount() {
        const script = document.createElement("script");
        script.src = this.catpchaLink;
        document.body.appendChild(script);
        window.handleSubmit = this.handleSubmit;
    }
```

<br/>
I'm not sure if there are any security issues with this or if there is a better way to do this. If there is, I would be glad to hear it. You can reach me
by the contact form on the website.