---
title: "Long Weekend"
date: "2021-02-11"
headline: "5 day weekend!!!"
featuredImage: /images/poggers.png
---

It's a 5 day weekend! Huzzah!  
<br>

Unfortunately I literally have 100 pages of french homework to finish by next week. That's going to be reaaallyyy fun  
<br>

I wrote the first math quiz of the semester today! Don't you hate the feeling of knowing that you got something wrong? Well that happened after the quiz today so that sucks. It was even an easy question - my mind just was being dumb. It was like "the graph y=x^2 goes through the point (-2, 9). If the functions is tranformed into y = -(x+5)^2 - 9, where will the point lie?" I did the horizontal translation by adding 5 instead of subtrating 5. Rip.  
<br>

Skiing was fun. We nearly froze to death since it was so cold. The hill was super not busy because the day we went was the same day as the superbowl. Imagine Watching the superbowl when you would go skiing. Unfortunately the top sections of West Bowl were closed - presumeably because of the wind that day. We still had a ton of fun though. Went into the sidecountry a bit off of Larch on the far right side of lipilian chutes and got some nice snow. We also did the hike to Brown Shirt and got fresh pow there, at the price of our warmth. Fingers went numb carrying skis but it was well worth it.  
<br>
Also, Lake louise on their trail map has marked out a new planned expansion into Richardson Ridge! That's super exiciting.
  
<br>
It's like minus -40 degrees right now with the wind chill. We got an extreme cold warning from environment canada about 2 days ago.