---
title: "July 25: Lots of Updates"
date: "2021-06-25"
headline: "Hiking, Backpacking, School, Swimming, Web developement, Heat wave"
featuredImage: ../images/2021-06-25-piperpass.jpg
---

## Hiking  
<br>
There's been a ton of stuff going on lately. Last weekend, I went to Piper's pass, and it was absolutely gorgeous. We were surrounded by mountains, and it was amazing. We left Calgary at around 8:00 am, and we arrived at the trailhead at around 9:30. Oh yeah, Kananaskis has just started to have passes that allow entry, so that's a thing. The initial hike to elbow lake was easy, and up to the part where we branch off the main trail was quick. However, after that, the fun began.  

<br>

We had to cross 24 streams to get to the pass, 2 of which were wide and fast. In the first one, there was a sketchy bridge made of 3 thin logs tied together. Some of the memebers in our group opted to take off their shoes and socks and wade across, but I opted for the bridge. Going across the first time was terrifying - The water would sweep your poles away if you tried to put them in the river for balance, and the "bridge" bounced up and down as you walked across. In addition, the logs bent as you crossed, and when you were in the middle, some water would sweep over your feet. There was a pair of backpackers who came to the bridge just as all of the memebers of our group had crossed, and they had a dog! It was so much fun watching the dog cross the bridge. We were cheering him on, but his back two paws slipped of the bridge as he was crossing. Luckily, he regained his balanced and made it across safe - maybe just a little wet.  

<br>

The next fast river crossing was more difficult. There were two options - a super sketchy bridge made of 1 thin log, or jumping across to a place with a terrible landing. There was somebody who tried the bridge, and they totally fell in the river. I ended up jumping across, and made it across dry. Some of the memebers in our group worked together and improved the bridge, and crossed using it without any more slips.  

<br>

After the two creek crossings, the trail was nice for a bit. There were a couple fallen trees, but they were not too difficult to get over. However, as we gained elevation, there were more and more snow patches on the trail. The snow was horrible - sometimes your foot would go all the way through, and your boot would get filled with snow. And as we gained more elevation, there was snow piled up like a triangular shape, with the most snow piled in the middle of the trail. Going along the side, where the snow was less deep, you would get wet due to the dew on the trees.  

<br>

Once we got out of the trees, we were in beautiful alpine meadow. We were surrounded by mountains, and we could see the pass up ahead. After a bit more hiking, surrounded by gorgeous scenery, we had a get up the pass. Luckily, it was easy to get up, as there was a path beat into the scree, so it was stable.  

<br>

This weekend, I plan to go up Mount Kidd.  

<br>

## Backpacking  
<br>
We also have a backpacking trip on the Rockwall sceduled for July 5-8. This week, it is supposed to be around 38 degrees, so the snow should be all melted when we go. We are planning our food now, and I'm excited to go.  

<br>

## School  
<br>
We got out report cards for 3/4 courses this semester, and I'm pretty happy. The comment our language arts teacher gave me was very funny. Our language arts teacher was honestly awesome. I ended up with a 93% in English 10-1 cohort-ib, 95% in French 20 cohort-ib SL, 99% in Chemistry 20 cohort-ib, and 94% in math 20-1 cohort-ib AA. My mark for this semester averages out to 95.25%. My average grade this year comes out to be 94.5%. My lowest marks were in social-10 cohort ib and physical education, which were both 92%.  
<br>

## Swimming  
<br>
We also head the last swim practice of the season today. It was bitersweet, as we never got the change to have any swim meets this season as a result of the covid-19 pandemic. Even worse, we couldn't hold the annual team banquent, which was very sad. This season I was hoping to make western times, as I was very close in my 100 breaststroke. Now, however, I'll have to make 16 year old times, which are going to be difficult to achieve. I'm still hopeful for next year though.   
<br>  

## Web Development  
<br>
It's been a huge task to move all the stuff from my old website to Gatsby, and I'm happy to say that it's almost done. I've finished converting all the old pages into a new format, and I've managed to figure out how to use graphql, React's quirks, and gatsby plugins. I have also revamped my form handler as I was not quite satisfied with the previous one. I have to say, the ability to generate pages from markdown files is super convenient, and the ability to make content dynamically is very useful. I no longer have to manually update the links for journal posts or the most recent content on the homepage. I am interested in learning typescript, and I may start using it once the website is ready for depolyment. I plan to use Netlify to host the website.   
<br>  

## Heat Wave  
<br>
Environment Canada issued a heat wave for Southern ALberta and areas of BC today. In Calgary, it is supposed to be 38 degrees on Wednesday! 38 degrees!!! It's crazy - I've never experienced that sort of heat in my life. In addition, around the Shushwap area, its supposed to be around 45 degrees, which is totally insane. 