---
title: "April"
date: "2021-04-14"
headline: "Math, Chemistry, and Robotics Updates"
---

It's been a crazy 3 last 3 weeks, and alot has happened since the last post  


I guess the first thing thats happened was I got the marks back on the solutions unit test, which I gor 36/37 on. I was pretty happy with that. On the french presentation, I got like 90% and the labs were both bery good. We started the acids and bases unit which we have a d2l unit test this Monday for. The chemistry final was planned for April the 30th, but it is unclear what is going to happen now.  


Unfortunately, it snowed pretty soon in the mountains after the last post and I haven't been able to go scrambling since  


We've also done an entire unit on functions in the time that I didn't post anything. The functions were radical, rational, piecewise, and another one I can't remember. I feel I did pretty well but could have done better. We're starting the next unit which is focused on solving equations of said functions now.  


Yesterday, it was announced that all grade 10 students would be at online learning until the 27th. While some rejoiced like christ had come down from heaven and proclaimed that humanity would be saved, others sat quietly wondering how it would impact them. Today, it was announced that all students from grades 7-12 would go online until at least May 3rd.  


For me, that means that the chemistry final exam and the acids and bases unit test will either be cancelled or no jeopardy. I'm not really sure how french quizzes and tests are going to be handled, same for math. I suspect that math quizzes and tests will just be on d2l and people will cheat.  


I found out about opportunities for internships on the 11th, and spoke to me counceller about it. He reffered me to another guy who told me that I had to submit an application by 9:00 on the 15th, and I've been in a huge rush to put together a resume and a cover letter. In the application, we also had to submit a teacher reccomendation form, and I'm lucky that my awesome chemistry teacher was able to respond so quickly for my request for their reccomendation. That chemistry teacher is actually one of the best.  


No image this time :(  

