---
title: "April 2"
date: "2021-04-18"
headline: "Hiking! East end of rundle. And swimming."
featuredImage: /images/2021-4-18.jpg
archive: 1
---

I went scrambling on East End of Rundle (EEOR) yesterday. The trip was pretty interesting.

The first interesting thing was that every other group that climbed EEOR had crampons, which we didn't have. The beginning of the trail was steep and icy - a terrible combination for the unprepared. We struggled our way up, grabbing onto trees, roots, anything that would help us up. Luckily, after about 15 minutes of steep, icy trail, we came out onto dry trail. The part of the trail from the end of the ice to out of the treeline went out pretty easily - trail was hard and steep, with a couple patches of snow but we made good time.

The next part of the trail was also interesting. The scree, up to a certain point, was generic rockies scree. However, once we got to a certain point, there was a large patch of snow with small patches of very loose scree. To the right, there seemed to be a small avalanche track, which looked like it had been triggered pretty recently. What made it worse is that we had to aim for a gully on the left to get through a rock band. We ultimately opted to kick steps into a line of stable snow.

It wasn't over after getting above the rock band though. Once we were on it, we had to traverse up and to the right to get above another cliff. While the part going up was slushy and slippery, there were grippy handholds on the left to stablize yourself. Once we got above the cliff, it was an easy walk on snow and scree to the top.

Swimming (and all other sports) also got cancelled for the next 2 weeks for grades 7-12. We had our last practice today, and we did some timed events. Surprisingly, I managed to go a 33.7 for 50 br despite the fact that I've only swam about 200 meters of breaststroke in the last 2 months.
