---
title: "New Website development and new app and school"
date: "2022-04-10"
headline: "Nextjs"
---

# My Linux Journey

I decided this year that I wanted to get a better grasp of server infrastructure and how information is shared across the internet. First, I installed ubuntu on my laptop in a dual-boot setup, and I liked the control and power I had over the operating system, which was a nice change from Windows. I had to learn how to use the LibreOffice suite of programs to do my schoolwork, but it was very convenient to not have to deal with Microsoft's BS about logging in and accounts. Moreover, I've become a huge fan of the Libreoffice math equation editor. It has made writing up lab reports for physics go much smoother, and makes the equations look very sleek and clean. What I'm not such a huge fan of was learning how to use the chart editor in Libreoffice Calc. I found the design to be unintuitive and unfriendly to someone trying to learn how to use it, but after reading the documentation and getting used to it, I found it to be sufficient for what I needed to do. Another thing I love about Libreoffice is the ability to record macros. It makes formatting things so efficient, and I feel like a god when I write and play them. 

Anyways, my family also had an ancient computer that we were going to throw out, but I realized that I might be able to use it to host random things that I wanted. It was running Windows 7, with an intel pentium 2 processor and 1.5 Gb of DDR2 ram, with an 80GB hard drive. I was intrigued when I saw that it also had floppy disk hard drives, but I did not have enough knowledge about computer hardware to do anything with them. I installed putty on the computer and backed up all of the family photos we had stored on the computer (I later found out it was my sisters old homework computer from when she was in high school) by transferring them over our local network. I didn't know anything about networking at the time, so I learned how to set up a ssh client on my laptop and connect to the old pc, and I transferred them over our local wifi network with SFTP (although, in retrospect, I think it would have been fine to use ftp). 

After that, I decided that I was going to learn the basics of networking, so I decided that I wanted to try to host a vpn server on the old pc. I installed the latest version of ubuntu server on it, and followed a tutorial from DigitalOcean. It worked, but it was blocked by the hotel internet (when I was on a ski trip) and also by my High School's internet. I tried to use Obfs4 and ssh tunneling and other obfescuation methods but I was becoming confused and it was out of my comfort level, so I decided to stop. However, I did learn alot about the basics, like how to configure firewalls (using iptables and then ufw), the difference betweeen tcp and udp protocols, the commonly used ports for server, basics of how to use the `ip` command, the routing table, and essential other bits of information.

After that, I got tired of the look of the GNOME desktop environment, and decided I was going to replace the windows partition of my hard drive with a Debian installation. I installed with KDE Plasma, but I didn't really like the look, and I installed the awesome window manager. It was lucky that I didn't decide to completely reinstall without including the KDE plasma desktop environment because they were occationally useful when I was still learning more about how to do certain things on Linux, and I needed to get something done urgently. An example of this is when I was trying to connect to internet. I didn't know how to use `nmcli` to connect to internet, and I was still learning about the `ip` command.

Oh yeah, I forgot to mention, I accidentally disabled the non-free something option when I winstalled Debian, so my internet didn't work at all and the graphics looked like trash. I did some searching around and I had to do a (at the time I thought) weird thing, downloading the non-free firmware onto a USB drive, manually mounting the USB drive, installing the non-free firmware, and then unmounting the drive. I still don't know what firmware is.

I started using the command line more and more, and I was amazed at the things that were possible. I learned how to use `youtube-dl` to download the audio from classical music videos, and set up a simple file server with `rsync` on the old pc. During this time I also rooted my android phone and installed a shell on my phone so that I could sync files on my phone with the server at home. I also riced my desktop so that it looks cool. I build widgets for my awesomewm wibar from scratch, and learned about commands like `xrandr`, `pacmd`, `amixer`, and `upower`. I also learned more about the apt package manager, the `dpkg` command, and other common system utilites.

List of things I use regularly:
- awesomewm
- picom
- kitty terminal emulator
- fish shell
- nvim with a bunch of plugins (I think nvimtree, tokyonight color scheme, coq, and a bunch of convenience plugins) for editing files
- vscodium for when I need a more heavy-duty editor
- libreoffice for school work
- mutt email client (I still haven't figured out how to use multiple emails though...)
- Steam to play games (a bunch of weird graphics driver research was needed to play certain games like CIV6 and Poly Bridge. I think it has something to do with games with 3D graphics)
- cmus to play music

Civ6:
` LD_PRELOAD='/usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libfreetype.so.6:/usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libbrotlicommon.so.1:/usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libbrotlidec.so.1:/home/ezrahuang/.local/share/Steam/ubuntu12_32/gameoverlayrenderer.so' MESA_GL_VERSION_OVERRIDE=4.2 MESA_GLSL_VERSION_OVERRIDE `

BTD6: 
` PROTON_USE_WINED3D=TRUE %command% ` 

Poly Bride:
- randomly started working one day? Not sure if I did anthing that fixed it or if a bug got fixed or something

Terraria: 
- Worked perfectly out of the box

Slay the Spire:
- Worked perfectly out of the box

That's basically where I am now. I would still consider myself a linux beginner, but I feel comfortable with it now. I'm sure I forgot about some things related to learning how to configure programs and stuff, but I think I got all the major things.

# New App 

I decided to return to my french learning app project that I had started in the second school semester of 2021 and ended after that semester. This time, I had 3 goals: be able to use it on both my laptop and my phone, be able to efficiently create lists of words, and be able to sync the files between my phone and computer via the old pc. 

Right now, I have a very basic version of the app working where I can upload a csv file with lists of words, and practice my french with those lists of words. I use flutter to make it work. I have yet to implement good UI and any client/server code though. I'm still learning how to use flutter.

I love the dart programming language. It's like if Javascript, Lua, C++, and Java had a weird baby. It's type-safe, concise, practical, and very intuitive to learn and get started with. My only complaint is that I wish there was a protected keyword instead of having it be an annotation. At first, I was skeptical of the decision to have private class members be designated with an underscore prefix in the variable name, but I realized that this was very practical and consice, and after writing it dart for a bit, I got used to it.

# New Website Development

I decided to come back to this project with a fresh mind and I decided that I wanted to accomplish 3 things: Host it myself, migrate the files from Gatsby to Next JS, and to use typescript.

The conversion from Gatsby to NextJS went smoother than I thought it would. The only part that I had to learn how to do was how to do static generation with `getStaticProps()` and `getStaticPaths()`. Additionally, it was a bit annoying trying to fix all of the broken links but I think I have fixed all of them. Converting everything into typescript was also pretty smooth. The only thing I couldn't get to work properly as css modules with typescript, which would always give me build errors when I was testing production builds. I am just ignoring typescript errors in production builds for now, and I'll come back to it later to try to fix it. I think overall the migration process took ~10 hours

I set up NGINX (nginx? Nginx? nginX? whatever) and Next JS inside a Docker container to host, and to my surprise, it worked with minimal configuration. I am a big fan of Docker now. Even though I still don't really know what I am doing, what I have seen so far makes alot of intuitive sense.

That was alot of writing for one morning. Thats it. Bye.

Update about school, swimming, and other life things coming soon!