---
title: "Finished IB Exams!"
date: "2022-05-19"
headline: "Exams are finally over"
archive: 1
---

# IB Exams

I finally finished all my IB exams for this year. I took some time off programming to focus on studying for my exams, and I believe that it paid off. The IB exams that I had to take this year were Physics SL and Philosophy SL.

For the IB physics exam, we had to do both Paper 1 and Paper 2 back to back. After the last post, I started reviewing all my physics notes, and then started to practice with a bunch of past physics papers. I did every past paper, including the ones from different time zones, from 2016 to now, and it paid off. I was well prepared for the physics exam, which took place around the end of april. While I think I could have done better on the paper 1, the paper 2 went really smoothly for me.

However, I'm worried about the exam because I used a gel pen on it; I was unaware that you were not supposed to use gel pens on the exams since they can melt when in the scanner. I hope that my exam will be ok.

The philosophy exams were pretty stressful to prepare for. Our philosophy teacher did not properly prepare us for the Paper 2, which is a 1 hour paper on a philosophical text we were supposted to have studied in depth. We only spent about 2 week on the text, _The Second Sex_, by Simone de Beauvoir, so we did not have the kind of detailed knowledge that was necessary. ~24 days before Paper 2, I made a plan to study the entire sections of the book that were required. I resolved that I had to read and evaluate the contents of 2 chapters every 3 days, which would give me about 5 days before the exam to summarize and unify all my knowledge by doing past papers. It helped that we started to go on IB exam break, where my Physics and Math classes stopped having classes - I spent all that time preparing for philosophy. Also, for the Paper 1, we were advised by another teacher who used to teach philosophy to pre-write and memorize 2 essays for the Paper 1, so I also wrote an essay about personal identity. Overall, I think my preperation for the philosophy exams was successful.

I still have the physics diploma exam, but I don't think it will be too difficult, since we have up to 6 hours to complete it. Now that most of my exams are over, I have time to go back to programming! I plan to fix the issue with the contact form not redirecting to a form submission complete page, and I plan to resume development on ez_rappel.

# My laptop broke

One day in May, about 3 days before the philosophy exam, it started snowing. I brought my laptop in my bag, but slipped on my way to school. Consequently, my laptop screen was broken. Luckily, however, all of the other hardware was still intact, and I could use it by connecting an external monitor to it. Luckily, I had set up backups for my school work and my config files, so I installed Debian on another old laptop we had, and migrated all my stuff. While I had to do some manual setup, like tweaking the commands that would get information about the CPU temp, the migration was smooth, and I got everything set up in 1 day. I also discovered a new web browser with vim-like commands, called `luakit`, which I really enjoy using.

Since last Thursday, we started to have 2 and a half hour long practices every Thursday.
