---
title: "Summer 2023"
date: "2023-07-14"
headline: "Post-exam season thoughts"
---

## ib in 3 pieces

1. Etude no. 1, op, 10, Frédéric Chopin

- naiveté and excitement

2. 6 Moments Musicaux, op. 16 - no.6 - Sergei Rachmaninoff

- chaos, triumph, and despair

3. Piano concerto no. 3, op. 26 - Sergei Prokoviev

- beauty, insanity, tranquility

## moving / new beginnings playlist

1. Down with Disease - Phish

- moving on
- permanence of the past

2. Symphony no. 5 (final version), movement IV - Jean Sibelius

- quiet excitement
- nostalgia

3. The 6th Station - Joe Hisaishi

- journey
- rebirth

4. Montreal - Malajube

- montreal

## calgary people and places playlist (from a-z)

- AT | Piano concerto no. 1 - Edward Greig
  - the quintessensial example of spending blood, sweat, and tears for your dreams. the most passionate and best violin player I know
- BS | The Boy Who Swallowed a Star - Joe Hisaishi
  - :ukraine: someone who never gives up. i hope your grandmother is doing ok and I wish you luck at uni
- C | Crazy train - Ozzy Osbourne
  - hype song for hype races (50 br, 100 br, 200 br)
- C | Gadfly Suite - Dmitri Shostakovich
  - epic. 10/10 fav cyo piece.
- DL | ???
  - i will miss our conversations about software. i hope to see you more recognized for smart you are.
- EH | Intermezzo no. 2, op. 118 - Johannes Brahms
  - probably the strongest person I know and the most influencial person in my life
- FN | Ghost - Phish
  - the most reliable person i know. period.
- GH | String Quartet no. 12, op. 96 - Dvořák
  - unbelievably kind.
- JG | Landslide - Fleetwood Mac
  - caught in a landslide. i regret not being a better friend and stopping you when i still could
- MA | Minecraft - C418
  - we should play again sometime
- P | Etude-tableau no. 7, op. 33 - Sergei Rachmaninoff
- S | Sonata no. 21, op. 53 - Beethoven
- W | Symphony no. 5, Mahler

### favourite reads

- _A Streetcar Named Desire_, Tennessee Williams
- "The Boat", Alistair MacLeod
- _Tuesdays with Morrie_, Mitch Albom
- _The Mythical Man Month_, Fred Brooks
- _Ghost in the Wires_, Kevin Mitnick
